hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery again
history of tea part three today with a
special focus on the Tang Dynasty
luminary Lu Yu I was a little reluctant
to mix Lu Yu in with the last episode
and wanted to showcase his life in the
cha ching the classic of tea in one
single episode namely this one I won't
say that Lulu's life was as legendary
and mythic as Shen Nong but it was 12
centuries ago when Lu you walked this
earth so it's one of those things who
knows how much if any of this tale is
true so without further ado let's get
into it all my sources said he was a who
paid rent
born in 733 and what is present-day
tenman who Bay province between Wuhan
and jinglin like with many of today's
places in China back in Lu used a it
wasn't called by its present name he was
abandoned as a child and left under a
stone bridge and he ended up growing up
under the care of the abbot of Leung Chi
temple dragon cloud monastery the abbot
raised him as a son and together with
others inside the monastery served as Lu
Yu's team enters for all those earliest
formative years the roots of Lu use
passion for tea were planted here at
this Cheung Buddhist monastery I
mentioned earlier that Chan Buddhism is
better known by its Japanese names in
the way the script was written by his
stepfather Lu Yu was supposed to stick
with the monastery and embrace the life
of a monk but Lu you had other plans in
mind the abbot's problems began after he
had placed lu yu in the care of a family
who had taught him classical learning
Confucian values and philosophy lu you
favored this much more than buddhism no
matter how hard Lulu's father the abbot
tried to push him towards Buddhism and
away from Confucian learning he just
couldn't do it
to compel Lu Yu to toe the line and to
embrace Buddhism
Lu use stepfather used forceful ways
punishing him by making him do all the
most menial and degrading tasks in the
monastery
so 14 year old Lu you after saying
enough of this ran away picked up and
left
you joined the circus and became a clown
but being a circus performer wasn't the
life fer Lu you any more than it was for
Moya cone back in 1907 so Lu you didn't
last long in the entertainment industry
however being in the entertainment
business did have some perks you never
know what kind of interesting people and
role models you might run into Lu you
received a good education in the circus
he was a natural man of letters to and
of course tended to prefer to gravitate
towards people who were also literate
and learned a member of the Tong royal
family lychee wool for one
insubordination or another got banished
to ten men as the new governor ten men
wasn't considered a prestigious posting
at that time of the Tong anyway despite
this banishment lychee Wu put on his
best face and went down there
of course he sought out the local
entertainment there and wouldn't you
know it so enamored was he with Lu used
performing skills he sought him out for
further conversation and this Tong Royal
Ichi Wu then took Lu you under his wing
and provided him with mentorship and the
use of his library to further his
studies
so the period growing up in the
monastery until the time he began
writing the cha ching where lu use most
formative years
not only did Lee Chi will guide him at a
critical time in his life others to soul
foods and sway quoi foo served as Lu use
other teachers these two were other
respected Tong men of letters one a
teacher the other a poet and
calligrapher lu you became a man of
letters himself and could hold his own
against all the gifted literati of the
day he had built up a modicum of high
repute for his writing and for being as
euchre's described quote a colorful
personality of high abilities and
versatility unquote
Luo you spent his 20s traveling far and
wide to the 32t producing districts in
China this stretched from the region
west of the Chengdu Basin and Sichuan
all the way to 8th century tea heaven
jeongsu too young and young she he had
collected samples talked to the locals
compared processes and along the way
noted everything he saw during his
travels Luo you had wandered down to the
land of ba remember the buy of shoes
stayed centered around Chengdu tea part
1 this is considered the birthplace of
tea cultivation Luo you studied this
place and took notes wherever he went he
found solace at the Miyagi monastery and
who Jo Jo Geon province there he worked
alongside the China or tea farmers
working on the hillsides and he
befriended a Chon Buddhist monk named
gel rod gel ron was famous for his tea
poems jail Ron elite she would sold
foods to a guava they all had an impact
on Lu use education and his literary
prowess by this time the world of
letters and learning went hand in hand
with tea and knowing how to enjoy it
exposure to all these tea people who
knew so much about tea was the stuff
that gave Lu you the chops to
authoritative Lee writes something like
the classic of tea this monk
Geron was said to have been another one
of Lulu's main mentors and the arts of
preparing tea serving it and all about
the importance of the tea ware gel ron
was in many ways the one who was the
guiding spirit behind you Lu when he
began writing the cha ching history goes
the reason Lu you wrote the cha ching
was because he had received a commission
from some tea merchants these men in the
tea business who knows if it was a guild
or how this group came together they
thought it would be good for everyone
if they could put out an easy-to-read
simple all-inclusive guidebook to
everything one needed to know about tea
that's what the cha-ching the classic of
tea was all about it was an eighth
century infomercial on behalf of the tea
industry throughout this history of teas
series we have looked at all these
various documents going back to that
contract from long bao where in 59 BC he
tea and a team market were specifically
mentioned for hundreds and hundreds of
years as tea use in China developed
there would be references made to tea
that gave an indication about where tea
was as a beverage medicine amused at
that particular time to get an idea
about how culture was progressing
historians have had to sift through all
the documents to study this and that
document that mentioned tea but there
was no all-in-one guidebook that spelled
it out so succinctly and now with leuh
use cha ching the classic of tea here
for the first time everything about tea
was contained in one slender volume
written for both experts and novices and
because of his writing skills that he
had acquired growing up these past years
with some pretty smart people it was
written as elegantly as it was simple
lujah was perfectly suited to perform
this task he was at a stage in his life
where he was this brilliant mind looking
for some meaning in life and to strike
out and make a difference this
commission from these tea merchants
turned out to be the perfect opportunity
to write something he was eminently
qualified to do and at the same time
leave his mark on China
his accumulated learning and passion for
tea from his early days in the monastery
his Taoist and Buddhist core values and
beliefs his skill as a literati
acquired during his patronage by Lee Chi
woo his travels and the times he lived
in everything combined together in Lu
to give us the cha-ching in 765 he had
the first draft of the cha-ching ready
for release to these merchants but loo
you believed the cha-ching was in
complete yet and something was still
missing
so in 766 a deal was reached with his
sponsors to release the work in its
present unfinished form and in a limited
run in all it would take loo you a good
twenty six years to complete the classic
of tea in its final form through his old
acquaintance the Buddhist monk gel Ron
Lew you hooked up with a noted Tong
official calligrapher and all-around
literati s extraordinaire named yen John
Ching around 777 cen John Chang was
compiling books and documents for an
imperial library for the title Emperor
Liu Yu was one of the many scholars
invited to participate in this project
and to examine and study firsthand all
these ancient documents that needed
categorizing it was during this
scholarly endeavor poring over these
Scrolls that Lou you learned for the
first time all the Forgotten T history
going back to shun dongs time all of
this was new to Lu Yu and in reading
about T in the sway the southern and
northern dynasties period that gene the
three kingdoms Han and even as far back
as the Jo Lu you noted everything
acquiring all this new information he at
last felt he had everything he needed to
complete the work he had left unfinished
for more than a decade going back to the
Year 766 under Yin Chun qiangs
generosity and hospitality
Liu ye returned to the cha ching and
finished it off inserting all the
history of tea into the work on behalf
of the died song emperor
yong chun qiang tried to recruit lu yu
into the government but Liu Yu who had
already returned to the South would have
nothing of it he had this in common with
the reclusive poet Lu Tong he was a sort
that liked to be out in nature enjoying
tea rather than living the life in a
cubicle at the Royal pal
nonetheless he took the return trip
north to Chang on to thank you nun Ching
personally for recommending him to the
Emperor like he did then on route Lu you
turned the sojourn into another tea
vacation
he stopped along the way at any tea
worthy village or garden and wherever
there was a mountain stream whose water
was said by the locals to be regarded in
high repute lujah would go there to his
alleged expertise in being able to
recognize water purity is all part of
the whole Lu Yu legend he kept finishing
and polishing the cha ching during this
time the late 770's
by the year 780 it was in his final form
a Chinese reckoning this was the year
the year of the metal monkey this was
the year work began on borobudur the
largest Buddhist temple in the world
located in Central Java man Buddhism was
big in the 8th and 9th centuries
so 780 the cha-ching the classic of tea
was released to the tongue general
public everything about tea the water
utensils was categorized listed
explained and recommended with anecdotes
the impact this manual had on Chinese
tea society provided instant benefits to
the people who used it the cha ching
when it came out needless to say was an
instant classic no sad story for Lu Yu
he became an instant celebrity and was
even sought out by the tongue Emperor do
its own Lu you lived on for another 24
years beyond the publication of the cha
ching and 780 he lived to see paintings
of himself and Lu Yu statuettes placed
in tea shops and tea houses throughout
the land
Liu Yu would later produce much more
than just the cha ching as far as this
whole body of work but like so much from
this age not too much has survived the
ravages of man and nature but we did get
the cha ching so I guess we should be
thankful for that like so many documents
from these times no copies of the
original works
survived the cha-ching was a complete
primer on tea culture it touched on the
horticultural aspects plucking
processing the tools everything all in
one slender volume actually Beth then it
came in three volumes and ten parts but
these were Scrolls and not bound books
like we know in our crazy times
it was indeed slender only 7,000 Chinese
characters long Lu use cha-ching created
quite a revolution in China as far as
tea culture and the integration of tea
and two Chinese daily life was concerned
in order for the tea's supply to keep up
with the growing national demand tea
farmers had to migrate closer to the
population centers in the East downriver
along the Yangtze wherever the growing
conditions were right new tea
cultivation began with Buddhists and
Daoists usually leading the way from
seed planting to plucking it only took
three years so the ramped up phase of
any tea garden venture was relatively
quite fast the cha-ching remained a
stalwart in every learned man's library
for nine hundred and fifty five years
it wasn't until 1735 the final year of
the hard-working ching emperor jung jung
that looting Han another Josh in a tea
immortal and also an official originally
from around shanghai wrote the follow-up
to the charging and brought everything
Lou you had written in the brick tea
world of the Tang Dynasty up to date a
lot had happened between 780 and 1735
this supplement to the cha ching called
the shoe cha ching was a long time
coming the shoe cha ching simply means
the sequel to the cha ching there were
countless other treatises on tea and tea
culture that came before luo you or had
been alluded to in other texts will
mention others in this series as we go
along but many of the older texts
suffer from shadynasty syndrome we heard
of them they're written about but none
of these documents exist in any
collection public or private there's no
real historical evidence to prove many
of these documents existence or content
this short and skinny as the cha-ching
was it had a lot going on Lou you didn't
just offer a step-by-step instruction
guide on how to make tea the spiritual
aspect of tea was particularly
emphasized by Lou you he was insistent
that serenity oneness with nature in the
universe complete peace and focus was a
necessary component of making serving
and drinking tea Lou you emphasized that
the environment where you were drinking
tea mattered very much the entirety of
the tea experience had to be a serene
moment the preparation the ingredients
the water the tea ware and the tea
leaves themselves everything needed to
be just right and in tune with one's
inner harmony the act of making serving
and drinking tea was the outward form of
all of this combined inner harmony you
achieved this inner harmony through the
focus and attention you put into this
act of preparing and serving tea inner
peace could be achieved through focusing
on the seemingly mundane and its
importance in what you are doing at that
specific moment Lou tinks Hans work
followed a similar structure to Lou you
but by his time and the ching it was
already a loose tea world and in Lou
used a they were still scraping bricks
of tea
by the way lieutenant ton and Lou you
though sharing a common surname were not
related his sequel to the classic of tea
the shoe cha ching was a much longer
book in addition to bringing Lou you up
to date had also provided commentaries
and all the various tea treatises and
the tongue all the rituals involved in
the process were codified and a reason
was given for everything
Lou you borrowed from both Confucianism
and Daoism and producing this work for
this work and his personal contribution
to Zhang hua hai wen hua Chinese tea
culture he's forever referred to as the
cha hung for the tea st. he is also
considered as the first apostle of tea
in China let's open up the cha ching at
the classic of tea and see what Luo you
had to say for the cha ching
there were no shortage of sources all
over the place I used what I thought was
a good one it was entitled the classic
of tea origins and rituals translated
and introduced by Francis Ross carpenter
that came out on echo press in 1974
that's the one I recommend let's just go
through the ten chapters that make up
the cha ching if there are any
noteworthy quotes firm Luo you I'll read
for MA Francis Ross carpenter's
translation of the classic of tea the
Confucian ax stand mu you led him to
present the cha ching in a very
methodical way using lists and precise
steps to explain everything
Luo you said quote to quench our thirst
we drink boiled water to expel anxiety
or melancholy we drink wine to clear our
heads we drink tea unquote Chapter one
gives all the history horticulture
growing conditions when to pluck and how
everything affects the tea let me quote
in planting and transplanting tea the
same techniques apply as for a melon but
the tea may not be picked until the
plants third year tea that grows wild is
superior the garden T takes second place
whether grown and sunny slopes are in
shady groves the best leaves are russet
these are superior to the green leaves
tea from the young tender shoots in a
plants first blush is better than that
from the buds the best leaves are those
that are tightly curled leaves that are
open and unrolled erv second quality
he picked on the slopes are in the
valleys of a sunless mountainside is not
worth the effort unquote with respect to
some of T's health benefits let me quote
again if one is generally moderate but
is feeling hot or warm given two
melancholia suffering from aching of the
brain smarting of the eyes troubled in
the four limbs or afflicted in the
hundred joints he may take tea
four or five times it's liquor is like
the sweetest dew of heaven unquote the
tea liquid in the biz that is among the
cognoscenti baby is known as the liquor
in evaluating tea one looks not only at
the taste and smell but the color of the
liquor after a lifetime of knowing the
word liquor in the sense of a distilled
spirit of some kind it was hard for me
to overcome the other definition of
liquor as a liquid produced in a process
of some kind chapter 2 is all about the
tools of the trade
Lu you listed the 15 utensils you had to
have back in his day 15 tools required
to correctly carry out all the tasks
involved in plucking tea steaming
molding and all the steps needed to
ensure the tea brick was properly sealed
and storage ready he names a basket
furnace and cauldron boiler pestle
shaper holder and so on all down the
line if you were looking to make tea you
needed these 15 things regarding the
manufacture of tea Lu Yu says in chapter
3 quote tea is picked in the second
third and fourth moons young and tender
shoots growing on rich fertile soil
should not be pulled until they look
like fern or Bracken and are four to
five inches long in any case the shoots
should be picked only while the dew was
still cool do not pick on the day that
has seen rain or when clouds spoil the
sky pick tea only on a clear day all
there is to making tea is to pick it
steam it pound it shape it dry it tie it
and seal it unquote
hey no wonder so many people got into
the tea business also from Chapter three
Francis Ross carpenters translation
quote among would be kind of sewers
there are those who praise the
excellence of a tea by noting its
smoothness and commenting upon the gloss
jet shades of the liqueur they are the
least capable judges others will tell
you it is good because it is yellow
wrinkled and has depressions and mounds
they are better judges but the really
superior taster will judge tea in all
its characteristics and comment upon
both the good and the bad unquote
chapter four concerns the equipage
that's a $64 word meaning the equipment
for a particular purpose which in this
case is the storing preparation and
serving of tea Lu you listed 24
must-have items and a complete tea set
and the cool thing was the 24 thought it
was a carry-all case like those a spree
picnic sets lu use all in one solution
chapter 5 Lu you elucidates on the fine
points of making your own tea and as I
said Lu use expertise and water was
legendary he said about this subject
quote and the question of what water to
use I would suggest that tea made from
mountain streams is best river water is
alright but well water is quite inferior
water from the slow flowing stream the
stone line pools or milk pure Springs is
the best of mountain water never take
tea made from water that falls and
cascades gushes from Springs rushes and
a torrent or that eddies and surges as
if nature were rinsing its mouth over
usage of all such water to make tea will
lead to illness of the throat unquote
not all teas require the same
temperature of water to steepen if you
use the same water temperature for some
delicates white or green tea as you
would for Assam tea you'll really do the
tea to service but without a handy
thermometer around how do you measure
the water temperature a standard needed
established to describe the temperature
of the water as it progressed to a full
boil so Lew you famously put it this way
quote when the water is boiling it must
look like fish's eyes and give off but a
hint of sound when at the edges it
chatters like a bubbling spring and
looks like pearls innumerable strung
together it has reached the second stage
when it leaps like breakers majestic and
three sounds like a swelling wave it is
at its peak anymore and the water will
be boiled out and should not be used
unquote
and and in his two cents to what the
Aria said loo you himself remark quote
when T has a sweet flavour it may be
called gia if it is less than sweet and
of a bitter or strong taste it is called
chuan if it is bitter or strong when
sipped but sweet when swallowed it is
called cha unquote chapter six is pretty
important this is where Lou you
generously offers up some wisdom and
advice on drinking tea he also traces
the history of T since shun gnomes time
in this chapter Lou you lets loose about
adding stuff to your tea if you recall
back in the earliest days of tea this
had been a common practice going back to
the Bashu days and ancient search wine
Lou you had this to say about that quote
sometimes such items as onion ginger
jujube fruit orange peel dogwood berries
or peppermints are boiled along with the
tea such ingredients may be merely
scattered across the top for glossy
effect or they can be boiled together
and the froth drawn off drinks like that
are no more than the swill of gutters
and ditches alas it is a common practice
to make tea this way Chapter seven
concerns the gallery of famous people
who drank tea Lou you reaches back in
history all the way to shun Nong of
course he insisted it all began with him
following shun Nong is worthy imbibe
errs of tea where such luminaries as the
Duke of jo-jo Gong and the city of
lies famous daughter Samus young room Lu
you went back through history and gave
reference after reference concerning
various greats and near greats from the
Joe Han Jin all the way up to his time
he offers up a slew of vignettes and T
stories from various surviving documents
through the ages this is most likely the
information he picked up when he was up
in Chang'an working for Yin Chun Ching
on that Imperial library project chapter
H is just a listing of all the various
tea producing areas all over China at
that time as well as the tea produced
there and its quality ranking in chapter
9 lu yu gives you all the minutiae
involving what tools or utensils can be
excluded under certain conditions he
really gets down in the details here and
tries to think of everything that might
happen to someone in the late 8th
century and how to deal with it this far
was making tea was concerned one thing
the tea sages adamant about is that if
optimal conditions exist and there is
nothing that is out of order you would
better have all 24 things that he
enumerates in chapter 4 in fact Lu Yu
simply says quote if one of the
twenty-four implements is missing in an
aristocratic family inside the city then
tea cannot be prepared unquote
chapter 10 I'll just read the whole
thing because it's very short here Lu Yu
tells everyone how to take the cha ching
and redo it in two Scrolls that can be
hung on the wall of any tea house or
scholars residence for instant reference
as I said the impetus to produce the cha
ching were certain powers and the tea
business who believed a manual on
everything you needed to know about tea
would benefit both vendors and customers
so this final chapter was meant to guide
tea shops how to properly display the
cha ching and their fine establishment
the great tea Saint said quote on white
silk of four or six rolls copy it so
that it can be hung in sections spread
the sections out in order in the corner
of the room
the seats would be arranged them so that
the beginnings of tea the tools of tea
the manufacturer of T the equipage the
brewing of tea drinking the tea
notations on tea tea producing areas and
generalities can be taken in at a glance
and retained in memory with that from
first to last will have been completed
this treatise on tea unquote again
classic of tea origins and rituals
translated and introduced by Francis
Ross carpenter in reading Luo use
classic of team
it sounds so matter-of-fact and clinical
in English in the classical Chinese that
Luo you used it was delivered in a very
poetic and special way
you know the cha ching as liu you wrote
it exactly was lost surprise surprise it
resurfaced in the Ming Dynasty during
the home chair era is part of a larger
compendium of work the home chair
Emperor was just about but not quite
midway into the reign of the Ming
Emperor's so it's uncertain at the cha
ching we read today is the exact same
version of liu use time in the mid tang
dynasty after the cha ching was released
for general circulation all over china
the whole practice of the tea ceremony
and all the early tea culture was
embraced by everyone who could afford to
buy their own equipage teas popularity
exploded so ubiquitous and popular did
it get that as i said that the hood song
emperor tried to tax tea to raise
revenue for the state it didn't take
long for the cha ching to make its way
to japan where it also created quite the
rage the emperor of japan demand a
tribute tea as well just like the
emperor of china got the japanese took
the cha ching and injected it with
steroids and produced their own unique
Japanese tea ceremony that would be
taken to new heights after the Somme tea
had been adopted by the Zen monks early
on and was institutionalized within the
religion the rituals they created about
tea
meditation drinking tea before images of
Daruma and Sakyamuni was the seed from
which the whole japanese channel you tea
ceremony began lu use legacy using plain
and simple words he certainly raised the
status of tea from a thirst-quenching
beverage to something that could be
savored as well as enjoyed some people
say tea is a religion of sorts lu you
would be considered the highest deity if
such were the case
lu you the legend yielded many
interesting and memorable stories let me
mention a couple of the more famous it
said that lu use stepfather abbot
Georgie of long died monastery leighton
life had given up drinking tea so upset
and disappointed was he when his adopted
son Lu you ran away a second time from
long guy temple he gave up this passion
and his life and said no one could
prepare tea like his Lu Yu he was
adamant and true to his word all these
years that not unless his son prepared
the tea could it be possible for abbot
churchy to drink tea again the third
song emperor upon hearing of this story
decided to have a little fawn and one
day invited the abbot up to Chang'an the
Emperor wanted to test this claim out he
arranged for his most gifted tea expert
a palace court lady to prepare tea for a
bit churchy to see if he could accept it
not that she had any pressure on her but
she did her best and made and serve tea
to amateur Qi even though he had said he
wouldn't drink tea unless his son Liu
you prepared it the avid not wanting to
preach any eddakath accepted the brew
graciously and sipped without comment
that nothing special
then the emperor dezong told the abbot
he had one more tea master preparing tea
in the back room and he beseeched him to
try this particular tea behind a screen
away from the abbot the emperor had
arranged for lulu to be there and to
secretly prepare tea for his estranged
stepfather abbot Georgie Liu you did
this and the tea prepared by this
mystery tea master was presented to the
abbot
he took one sip and of course you know
what happens he proclaimed it excellent
and worthy and at that point Lulu was
trotted out and they had a happy reunion
right there the palace and the Emperor
was delighted that he could witness such
a thing in person and to learn this
legend was all true too bad nobody got
it on film
the other story is a brief anecdote
concerning Lulu's amazing ability to
judge water I've mentioned that water is
the mother of tea and just pouring it
out of the tap or drawing it from a well
simply is not going to pass muster with
the tea snobs and tea experts water was
special and Lou you knew his water it
said he was enjoying a nice young so
River cruise one day near young Joe and
the both of a Chinese general the
general told Lu you that the water from
the nearby nonlinear was absolutely pure
and that he had sent a few soldiers to
retrieve some of this water and the
general told these soldiers sternly to
make sure you draw the water from the
center of the river where it was
sweetest and purest when they got back
Lou you asked for a sampling of the
water they had carried back he tasted
this river water that purportedly was
drawn from the center of the river he
shook his head and said miss water
couldn't have come from the center it
tastes like it came from near the banks
of the river where it was less pure
Lulu's host exclaimed how can this be he
had asked his men purposely to draw the
water from the center of the river he
called one of them over to explain a
frightened soldier you know blubbered it
this water came from the center of the
river but Lou you said nest water came
from midstream at best and in no way
tasted pure enough Lou you had some of
the water poured out and tasted from
another part of the cistern and
proclaimed that this bit of water seemed
from the center of the river upon that
the soldier finally admitted that he had
drawn the water from the center of the
non linear it as instructed but and got
near the banks of the river some of the
water accidentally had spilled out so to
avoid getting into any trouble he tapped
the water cistern with water from near
the riverbanks so hey no fooling Lulu he
knew so the Tong dynasty they inherited
all the momentum T had made in the nun
beach hall in the sway in the short sway
Dynasty T had just started to become a
social beverage rather than simply a
medicine or health product by the time
of the last tong Emperor the practice of
drinking tea will have not only
permeated the entirety of China it will
have woven itself inexorably into the
fabric of daily Chinese life from the
highest court rituals down to the most
common mean family tea became a common
thread joining everyone in China Arab
traders regularly making the Middle East
Chung on run were writing as far back as
the mid nineties a common beverage in
China if it wasn't already surely tea
was on the way to becoming the national
beverage of China just as chop suey
would one day become the national dish
thanks to the greatly charmagne
tongue-tied song the whole idea of
reserving the best of the best for the
Emperor's own consumption the tribute
tea system began and thanks to the
diplomatic alliance between Tibet and
China tea was brought to that rather in
assessable place and from this sprouted
the whole ancient tea horse rode that in
turn produced stories and legends known
by the mountain people of Sichuan and
Yunnan tea got so big the government
themselves felt obligated to get
involved they too got into the business
of managing tea gardens tributes and
taxes later on the Tong government would
essentially nationalize all tea and from
the beginning Buddhist Confucian esand
Daoists would always be teas biggest
proponents and champions when Lu you
came on the scene he essentially showed
everyone how to grow tea how to produce
it prepare it and drink it he also
preached a tea philosophy that at first
was embraced by the elites aristocrats
and educated classes and then
a lot of others joined in as well and
this philosophy called for tea drinking
to take on a central role in seeking and
enjoying peace of mind and an escape
from the demands of everyday life into a
world where you could forget all your
troubles and live in the moment and the
ambience the tea ware and utensils all
had a great impact on the outcome of the
total experience regarding the whole
yeah we're vs. Shing where debate to
remember we mentioned this from the last
episode part two Liu Yu was a year where
guy he gave several reasons why the
beautiful and delicate white Shing we're
from Hebei in the north was an inferior
experience compared to the greenish
celadon we're from Rachel in judge Yong
who you spelled it out that in comparing
the two the Shing where was like silver
to Europe where's Jade Shing was snow
yeah where was ice Shing where with its
whiteness allowed you to see the color
of the tea more clearly but only from
you where did the tea take on its green
color if you visit Tenma and who'll pay
today to honor their hometown hero
there's a loo u square a loo you park
lulu avenue lu yu garden and I'm sure
there's a Lulu teahouse all things Lu Yu
and in Hong Kong of course the new
teahouse and Stanley Street in central
this has been a Hong Kong institution
since 1933
have been there several times always
upstairs of course and not in the
downstairs part which are reserved for
their best guess Lu you warned against
drinking cold tea and said it gave one
indigestion from what I read about 85%
of the tea consumed in the US is iced so
what would Lou you have to say about
that so let's just put the bookmark in a
little earlier than usual next episode
we're going to pick up in the post lu u
world and see how things were after the
fall of the tongue the Five Dynasties
and ten kingdoms period and then the
northern song dynasty
we'll take another look at our old
friend and / Wade song again he was a
big tea drinker and a proponent of all
that was good about tea that's for next
time for now this is your humble
narrator Laszlo Montgomery signing off
again from sunny Southern California
gorgeous today but we got soaked the
past couple days finally had a nice hit
of rain let's hope there's more of that
between now and May we and Cali need it
take care if you wanted I hope you'll
consider staying with the program and
listening next time to another exciting
episode of the china tea history podcast